---
title: "Why you might want a chromebook..."
date: 2021-03-15T01:33:02-05:00
description:
draft: false
hideToc: false
enableToc: true
enableTocContent: false
tocFolding: false
tocPosition: inner
tocLevels: ["h2", "h3", "h4"]
tags:
- chromebook
- chromeos
series:
-
categories:
- chromebook
- chromeos
image:
---

When Chromebooks first came out a decade ago, I dismissed them as inferior
in almost every way possible to a PC. Essentially, with a Chromebook, you
were just locked into a browser, making them a cut-down, restrictive
alternative to a PC, which wasn't worth even the low prices of the first
models, much less the price tags of the first premium models.

Things change however, and these days ChromeOS is much more than just being
locked into a browser - with the ability to install many Android and Linux
applications, I finally bit the bullet and purchased my very first
Chromebook this weekend.

<!--more-->

So what exactly are Chromebooks good for nowadays, and why might you want
one? I'll lay out the most compelling use cases here. I don't see myself
using one as my primary computing device anytime soon, but that's ok...
there's a lot of things I can use a Chromebook for, even if it's not going
to replace my main PC.

## Occasional Mobility

If you've got a nice desktop PC that you use most of the time, you may find
that you seldom need a laptop, and here a Chromebook really shines, thanks
to painless updating, an operating system that revolves around making it
easy as possible to work with cloud services, and built-in security that
makes it almost as easy as a reboot to deal with even the worst problems.

If you're only turning on your laptop a few times a year when you happen to
travel, then a Chromebook really is a no brainer, as it's very low
maintenance, has a much longer service life than a PC laptop, and does a
good job of keeping you safe online.

## Technically Challenged Users

A Chromebook is ideal for technically challenged users, particularly if
those users aren't already locked into the Windows or Apple ecosystems. The
devices are remarkably easy to use, and easy to recover from the sort of
mishaps less technically adept users encounter. Malware isn't likely to
survive a restart, the device can be quickly and painlessly reset to a
default state, and theres easy access to a browser, email client, Youtube,
and most other streaming services.

## Education
Low cost, access to cloud services, and Google's Chromebooks for Education
programs have made Chromebooks a great option for students at a time when a
global pandemic has limited in-person learning.

## Backup Device

Having a Chromebook around as a backup device makes a lot of sense - with a
Chromebook around its really easy to get up and running quickly should your
main PC fail. This can be a particularly good option for families, since
Chromebooks have really solid multiuser support - anyone in the household
can just log in and go.

A Chromebook can potentially save the day for someone working from home, as
many of the applications in day-to-day use like Google Docs, Microsoft
Office, Slack, Google Meet, and Zoom are readily available here and can be
set up in a matter of minutes.

## Alternative to iPad or Android Tablet

Chromebooks have recently crossed over into the tablet space, with many of
the devices on the market today having some form of convertable form factor.
Since most Android applications are available on Chromebooks, these 2-in-1
devices are a compelling alternative to tablets, and many of them have
higher specs than the dime-a-dozen Android tablets that have flooded the
market.

This is probably the strongest use case for me - the ability to run Android
apps on a larger screen, with a keyboard and mouse available if I need or
want it.

## Linux Desktop

Chromebooks are a good alternative to a Linux desktop for many users, as
they provide a Debian VM with the ability to run both CLI applications and
even X11 applications with very little overhead. No full blown desktop
environment to bloat the system, but there are some caveats. 

Graphics acceleration isn't available without enabling an experemental
option under chrome flags, and the environment's sandboxed from the rest of
ChromeOS and from the network - you won't be able to have services exposed
outside of the Linux sandbox without port forwarding, which is limited to
ports above 1024. The integration isn't perfect either - I haven't been able
to figure out a way to open Chrome from within the Linux environment, short
of having a completely seperate copy of Chrome inside the sandbox.

With that said, this does give you one advantage that the typical Linux desktop
environment doesn't have - the ability to run Android apps on the same
machine, so you necessarily don't have to give up as much as you normally
would by running a Linux desktop.
